---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E4 Progress in Programming Report"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-11-06
published: true
labels:

---
  My programming skills have greatly improved in terms of my coding planning and commenting. I have a better understanding of structuring my code and how I imagine it should fit together. For instance, in assignment 1 I had a step-by-step plan on what features I decided to code in first to build my assignment like a block tower. I first needed to code in my server functions as the foundation to create the rest of my assignment. This was a great learning experience to push my coding skills.
  
  I feel like where I am lacking the most is in my variable creation and placement. I often find myself creating variables to test my code in various manners. While testing my code I might leave the wrong array or the wrong variable in my functions which can cause errors. Forgetting to change these variables and leaving them behind if not used is something that occasionally causes errors and creates messy code at the end of the process.
  
  The WODs have helped me a lot when going through specific coding problems to solve. For example, the invoice3 WOD helped me integrate data validation into my invoice printout. I feel as if the screencast is there to help me with a particular problem or roadblock that is one thing that is stopping me from completing the task. Once this roadblock is cleared then everything falls into place and the process goes relatively smoothly. I don’t think I need the screencast to do the assignments but it does make it easier to solve specific problems that go over the time limit.
  
  The labs always helped me understand how to set up my code to complete my task. Labs give a great live walkthrough such as the objects and arrays lab. Being able to have images that visualize how arrays work and how they can be interacted with is very helpful. Having the ability to go step by step in class to help aid the learning process is very useful when it comes to transferring those skills to assignments.
  
  Assignment 1 taught me a lot when it comes to creating a server and web page. Learning how to edit a template to incorporate our site functions was a fun experience. Being able to identify what elements can be manipulated on the server to display on the browser was interesting to work on. Having server-sided data validation and redirection was a great experience that will hopefully assist me in assignment 2. 
  
  I think the class can be improved through the editing of the website. The WODs and Assignments have frequent typos and misplaced directions that are out of order. I think if these issues were addressed then there would be less confusion during assignments and have an easier time understanding how to code.
  
  The module readings have helped me learn the most from the class lessons. The HTML forms tutorials have had the greatest impact on my ability to create functional web pages for our assignments. Being able to see how different techniques and coding functions work with one another to create a cohesive HTML form was great. This was instrumental to my assignment 1 web page and how I handle my data through my server.
