---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: "E5 Reflecting on Assignment 2 Technical Essay"
# All dates must be YYYY-MM-DD format!
date: 2022-11-21
published: true
labels:

---
Assignment 2 proved to be a challenge to finish. I had to visualize a lot of ideas to properly figure out what I needed to implement and where to do it. 

This assignment thoroughly tested my knowledge of server processing and JSON objects. Having the server handle and process all kinds of data such as user login and purchase data was difficult. I had to make lots of different app.post’s to properly handle all of the relevant data to make my assignment work as intended. Learning how I can store different data metrics in a JSON object to use in different functions was extremely helpful.

I ran into a problem fetching my files within my server.js. Professor Port helped me work out the root of the issue. I had to change my files to include “__dirname” in my file paths to correctly fetch files. This was a relatively minor issue that had large implications as my assignment would not run without this issue being resolved. I believe this issue was caused due to how my permissions were set up on my desktop pc that did not work on the ITM web server.

Developing this assignment was significantly different from assignment 1. I had to find out how to code each function step by step to reach my end goal for the particular problem. For instance, figuring out how to track the number of times a user logged in seems straightforward but it required me to figure out how to store and present this number on my HTML page. I found that coding one thing at a time helps a lot when it comes to getting a hypothetical solution coded.

Around 10% of my time was spent thinking about how to solve the problem compared to the time I spent coding. Of the 90% of the time on coding, I think 75% of the time was focused on debugging my code. The code always seems straightforward but in practice always takes a lot more time. Testing and debugging always ended with a simple change in code or structure to accomplish that takes a few minutes to do. It is frustrating to find that an issue that takes several hours to solve can be done with just a few lines of code.

My process of planning out how to structure my code and then coding it seemed to work pretty well. I would say that proper planning is just as important as coding itself. I think that overthinking the assignment and how to do everything from the very beginning is not helpful. When tackling a large problem it is more effective to “chunk” the assignment to accomplish certain goals that lead up to the completion of the assignment. If I could go back and do things differently I would start to plan out how each page interacts with the other and what methods I should use to transfer data. This was my biggest issue when it came to coding my assignment.

